.TH dp_file 3dp "July 14, 2025" "Disaster Party" "Disaster Party Manual"

.SH NAME
dp_file_t \- structure for holding file information

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <disasterparty.h>
.PP
.nf
typedef struct {
    char* file_id;
    char* display_name;
    char* mime_type;
    long size_bytes;
    char* create_time;
    char* uri;
} dp_file_t;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dp_file_t
structure holds the result of an API call made by a file upload function.
It contains the successful response data. Its
contents must be freed with
.BR dp_free_file (3).

.SH MEMBERS
.TP
.B char* file_id
The unique identifier for the file.
.TP
.B char* display_name
The user-friendly name for the file.
.TP
.B char* mime_type
The MIME type of the file.
.TP
.B long size_bytes
The size of the file in bytes.
.TP
.B char* create_time
The time the file was created.
.TP
.B char* uri
The URI of the file.

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs or issues by opening a ticket on the GitHub issue tracker:
.PP
.UR https://github.com/segin/disasterparty/issues
.UE

.SH AUTHOR
Kirn Gill II <segin2005@gmail.com>
.br
Gemini (Conceptualization and initial C code generation)

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <disasterparty.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

int main() {
    // This is a simplified example. In a real scenario, dp_file_t
    // would be populated by a call to dp_upload_file or similar.
    dp_file_t* file = calloc(1, sizeof(dp_file_t));
    if (file) {
        file->file_id = strdup("files/example-id");
        file->display_name = strdup("example.txt");
        file->mime_type = strdup("text/plain");
        file->uri = strdup("https://example.com/files/example-id");
    }

    printf("Freeing file structure.\n");
    dp_free_file(file);
    printf("File structure freed.\n");

    return 0;
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dp_free_file (3),
.BR dp_upload_file (3),
.BR disasterparty (7)
