.\" Man page for dp_model_list_t and dp_model_info_t structs from libdisasterparty
.TH DP_MODEL_LIST 3 "June 14, 2025" "libdisasterparty @DP_VERSION@" "Disaster Party Manual"

.SH NAME
dp_model_list_t, dp_model_info_t \- structures for holding model information

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <disasterparty.h>
.PP
.nf
typedef struct {
    dp_model_info_t* models;
    size_t count;
    char* error_message;
    long http_status_code;
} dp_model_list_t;

typedef struct {
    char* model_id;
    char* display_name;
    char* version;
    char* description;
    long input_token_limit;
    long output_token_limit;
} dp_model_info_t;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dp_model_list_t
structure is returned by
.BR dp_list_models (3)
and contains an array of
.BR dp_model_info_t
structures, each describing an available model from the provider.
The list must be freed with
.BR dp_free_model_list (3).

.SH MEMBERS of dp_model_list_t
.TP
.B dp_model_info_t* models
A pointer to an array of model information structures.
.TP
.B size_t count
The number of models in the
.I models
array.
.TP
.B char* error_message
If an error occurs, this will contain a description of the error.
.TP
.B long http_status_code
The HTTP status code from the API response.

.SH MEMBERS of dp_model_info_t
.TP
.B char* model_id
The unique identifier for the model (e.g., "claude-3-opus-20240229").
.TP
.B char* display_name
A user-friendly name for the model, if provided by the API.
.TP
.B char* version
The model version string, if provided.
.TP
.B char* description
A description of the model, if provided.
.TP
.B long input_token_limit
The maximum number of input tokens the model supports.
.TP
.B long output_token_limit
The maximum number of output tokens the model can generate.

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs or issues by opening a ticket on the GitHub issue tracker:
.PP
.UR https://github.com/segin/disasterparty/issues
.UE

.SH AUTHOR
Kirn Gill II <segin2005@gmail.com>
.br
Gemini (Conceptualization and initial C code generation)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dp_list_models (3),
.BR dp_free_model_list (3),
.BR disasterparty (7)
