.\" Man page for dp_message_t and related structs from libdisasterparty
.TH DP_MESSAGE 3 "July 31, 2025" "libdisasterparty @DP_VERSION@" "Disaster Party Manual"

.SH NAME
dp_message_t, dp_content_part_t \- structures for representing conversational messages

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <disasterparty.h>
.PP
.nf
typedef struct {
    dp_message_role_t role;
    dp_content_part_t* parts;
    size_t num_parts;
} dp_message_t;

typedef struct {
    dp_content_part_type_t type;
    char* text;
    char* image_url;
    struct {
        char* mime_type;
        char* data;
    } image_base64;
    struct {
        char* mime_type;
        char* data;
        char* filename;
    } file_data;
    char* file_uri;
} dp_content_part_t;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
These structures are used to build the conversation history for an API request.
The
.B dp_message_t
represents a single turn in the conversation, which can consist of one or more
.BR dp_content_part_t
structures. This allows for creating complex, multimodal messages with interleaved
text, images, and file references.

.SH MEMBERS of dp_message_t
.TP
.B dp_message_role_t role
The role of the message's author, which can be `DP_ROLE_SYSTEM`, `DP_ROLE_USER`, `DP_ROLE_ASSISTANT`, or `DP_ROLE_TOOL`.
.TP
.B dp_content_part_t* parts
A pointer to a dynamically allocated array of content parts.
.TP
.B size_t num_parts
The number of parts in the
.I parts
array.

.SH MEMBERS of dp_content_part_t
.TP
.B dp_content_part_type_t type
The type of this content part, which can be `DP_CONTENT_PART_TEXT`, `DP_CONTENT_PART_IMAGE_URL`, `DP_CONTENT_PART_IMAGE_BASE64`, `DP_CONTENT_PART_FILE_DATA`, or `DP_CONTENT_PART_FILE_REFERENCE`.
.TP
.B char* text
If the part is text, this points to the text content.
.TP
.B char* image_url
If the part is an image URL, this points to the URL.
.TP
.B image_base64
A nested struct containing the `mime_type` (e.g., "image/jpeg") and the base64-encoded `data` if the part is a base64 image.
.TP
.B file_data
A nested struct containing the `mime_type` (e.g., "application/pdf"), the base64-encoded `data`, and optional `filename` if the part is file data.
.TP
.B char* file_uri
If the part is a file reference, this points to the URI of the uploaded file.

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs or issues by opening a ticket on the GitHub issue tracker:
.PP
.UR https://github.com/segin/disasterparty/issues
.UE

.SH AUTHOR
Kirn Gill II <segin2005@gmail.com>
.br
Gemini (Conceptualization and initial C code generation)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dp_message_add_text_part (3),
.BR dp_message_add_image_url_part (3),
.BR dp_message_add_base64_image_part (3),
.BR dp_message_add_file_data_part (3),
.BR dp_message_add_file_reference_part (3),
.BR dp_free_messages (3),
.BR disasterparty (7)