." Man page for dp_message_add_tool_call_part from libdisasterparty
.TH DP_MESSAGE_ADD_TOOL_CALL_PART 3 "August 09, 2025" "libdisasterparty @DP_VERSION@" "Disaster Party Manual"

.SH NAME
dp_message_add_tool_call_part \- add a tool call content part to a Disaster Party message

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <disasterparty.h>
.PP
.BI "bool dp_message_add_tool_call_part(dp_message_t *" message ", const char *" id ", const char *" function_name ", const char *" arguments_json ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dp_message_add_tool_call_part()
function adds a new content part of type
.B DP_CONTENT_PART_TOOL_CALL
to the specified
.I message
structure. This type of part is typically used in messages with the role
.B DP_ROLE_ASSISTANT
to represent a request from the model to execute a specific tool or function.

The function allocates memory for the part and copies the provided strings.

.TP
.I message
A pointer to the
.B dp_message_t
structure to which the part will be added.
.TP
.I id
A unique identifier for this specific tool call (e.g., provided by the API response).
.TP
.I function_name
The name of the function/tool to be called.
.TP
.I arguments_json
A JSON string containing the arguments to be passed to the function.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns
.B true
if the part was successfully added, or
.B false
if memory allocation failed or if the message pointer was NULL.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dp_message (3),
.BR dp_message_add_tool_result_part (3),
.BR dp_free_messages (3),
.BR disasterparty (7)
