." Man page for dp_message_add_tool_result_part from libdisasterparty
.TH DP_MESSAGE_ADD_TOOL_RESULT_PART 3 "August 09, 2025" "libdisasterparty @DP_VERSION@" "Disaster Party Manual"

.SH NAME
dp_message_add_tool_result_part \- add a tool result content part to a Disaster Party message

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <disasterparty.h>
.PP
.BI "bool dp_message_add_tool_result_part(dp_message_t *" message ", const char *" tool_call_id ", const char *" content ", bool " is_error ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dp_message_add_tool_result_part()
function adds a new content part of type
.B DP_CONTENT_PART_TOOL_RESULT
to the specified
.I message
structure. This type of part is typically used in messages with the role
.B DP_ROLE_TOOL
to provide the output of a previously requested tool execution back to the model.

The function allocates memory for the part and copies the provided strings.

.TP
.I message
A pointer to the
.B dp_message_t
structure to which the part will be added.
.TP
.I tool_call_id
The unique identifier of the tool call that this result corresponds to. This must match the
.I id
provided in the preceding tool call message.
.TP
.I content
The output produced by the tool. This is typically a JSON string representing the result, but can be a plain string depending on the tool definition.
.TP
.I is_error
A boolean flag indicating whether the tool execution resulted in an error. This is particularly relevant for the Anthropic provider to distinguish between a successful result and a runtime error in the tool.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns
.B true
if the part was successfully added, or
.B false
if memory allocation failed or if the message pointer was NULL.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dp_message (3),
.BR dp_message_add_tool_call_part (3),
.BR dp_free_messages (3),
.BR disasterparty (7)
