.\" Man page for dp_serialize functions from libdisasterparty
.TH DP_SERIALIZE 3 "August 03, 2025" "libdisasterparty @DP_VERSION@" "Disaster Party Manual"

.SH NAME
dp_serialize_messages_to_json_str, dp_deserialize_messages_from_json_str, dp_serialize_messages_to_file, dp_deserialize_messages_from_file \- helper functions for conversation serialization

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <disasterparty.h>
.PP
.BI "int dp_serialize_messages_to_json_str(const dp_message_t *" messages ", size_t " num_messages ", char **" json_str_out ");"
.br
.BI "int dp_deserialize_messages_from_json_str(const char *" json_str ", dp_message_t **" messages_out ", size_t *" num_messages_out ");"
.br
.BI "int dp_serialize_messages_to_file(const dp_message_t *" messages ", size_t " num_messages ", const char *" path ");"
.br
.BI "int dp_deserialize_messages_from_file(const char *" path ", dp_message_t **" messages_out ", size_t *" num_messages_out ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions provide utilities to save and load conversation histories to and from
a structured JSON format. This is useful for persisting conversations for later use.

.TP
.B dp_serialize_messages_to_json_str()
Converts an array of
.BR dp_message_t
structures into a pretty-printed JSON string. The caller is responsible for freeing
the returned string in
.I *json_str_out
using
.BR free (3).

.TP
.B dp_deserialize_messages_from_json_str()
Parses a JSON string and creates a newly allocated array of
.BR dp_message_t
structures. The caller is responsible for freeing the returned array and all its contents
using
.BR dp_free_messages (3)
and then freeing the array pointer itself with
.BR free (3).

.TP
.B dp_serialize_messages_to_file()
Serializes an array of messages to a JSON file at the specified
.IR path .

.TP
.B dp_deserialize_messages_from_file()
Reads a JSON file from the specified
.I path
and deserializes it into an array of messages. As with the string version, the caller
is responsible for freeing the allocated memory.

.SH RETURN VALUE
All functions return 0 on success and -1 on failure (e.g., memory allocation error,
file I/O error, JSON parse error).

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs or issues by opening a ticket on the GitHub issue tracker:
.PP
.UR https://github.com/segin/disasterparty/issues
.UE

.SH AUTHOR
Kirn Gill II <segin2005@gmail.com>
.br
Gemini (Conceptualization and initial C code generation)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dp_free_messages (3),
.BR disasterparty (7)
