. Man page for dp_upload_file from libdisasterparty
.TH DP_UPLOAD_FILE 3 "July 12, 2025" "libdisasterparty @DP_VERSION@" "Disaster Party Manual"

.SH NAME
dp_upload_file \- upload a file to the LLM provider

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <disasterparty.h>
.PP
.BI "int dp_upload_file(dp_context_t *" context ", const char *" file_path ", const char *" mime_type ", dp_file_t **" file_out ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dp_upload_file()
function uploads a file to the configured LLM provider. This function is currently
only supported for the Google Gemini provider.

The
.I file_path
argument must be a path to the file to upload.

The
.I mime_type
argument is the MIME type of the file (e.g., "image/png", "text/plain").

The
.I file_out
argument is a pointer to a
.BR dp_file_t
pointer that will be populated with the file information on success. The caller
is responsible for freeing this structure using
.BR dp_free_file (3).

.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns 0 on success. Returns a negative value on error.

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs or issues by opening a ticket on the GitHub issue tracker:
.PP
.UR https://github.com/segin/disasterparty/issues
.UE

.SH AUTHOR
Kirn Gill II <segin2005@gmail.com>
.br
Gemini (Conceptualization and initial C code generation)

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <disasterparty.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <unistd.h>

int main() {
    const char* api_key = getenv("GEMINI_API_KEY");
    if (!api_key) {
        fprintf(stderr, "GEMINI_API_KEY not set.\n");
        return 1;
    }

    dp_context_t* context = dp_init_context(DP_PROVIDER_GOOGLE_GEMINI, api_key, NULL);
    if (!context) {
        fprintf(stderr, "Failed to initialize context.\n");
        return 1;
    }

    // Create a dummy file for upload
    char temp_filename[] = "/tmp/test_upload_XXXXXX";
    int fd = mkstemp(temp_filename);
    if (fd == -1) {
        perror("mkstemp");
        dp_destroy_context(context);
        return 1;
    }
    write(fd, "This is a test file.", 20);
    close(fd);

    dp_file_t* uploaded_file = NULL;
    int ret = dp_upload_file(context, temp_filename, "text/plain", &uploaded_file);

    if (ret == 0 && uploaded_file) {
        printf("File uploaded successfully! URI: %s\n", uploaded_file->uri);
    } else {
        fprintf(stderr, "File upload failed.\n");
    }

    dp_free_file(uploaded_file);
    unlink(temp_filename);
    dp_destroy_context(context);

    return ret == 0 ? 0 : 1;
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dp_free_file (3),
.BR dp_message_add_file_reference_part (3),
.BR disasterparty (7)
